To convey Bible truth correctly, we must read from the Bible and our Christian publications accurately.
To do this, we must prepare well, pronounce each word correctly, and speak clearly.
As our brother reads Matthew 24, 43 and 44,
try to identify some common mistakes made in reading.
To answer that question, notice what the Bible says at Matthew 24, 43 and 44.
But no one more thing, if the housekeeper had known when the thief was coming,
he would have kept awake and not allowed his house to be broken into.
On this account, you too prove yourselves ready because the Son of God is common
at an hour that you do not think it to be.
Do you think that the householder might have been distracted by their reading?
Likely.
Making any of these errors could convey a lack of respect for the material
or change the meaning of the verse.
Let's watch a better example.
To answer that question, notice what the Bible says at Matthew 24, 43 and 44.
But no one thing, if the householder had known in what watch the thief was coming,
he would have kept awake and not allowed his house to be broken into.
On this account, you too prove yourselves ready because the Son of Man is coming
at an hour that you do not think to be it.
Much better.
To become effective at reading aloud, we should work to develop good habits in our personal reading.
Strive to understand the meaning and observe all punctuation marks.
For instance, at Matthew 8.3, Jesus did not say to the leper,
I want to be made clean.
But rather, I want to be made clean.
Running through the exclamation point completely changes the meaning.
In other verses, we have to emphasize the right words in order to convey the intended meaning.
For instance, how would you read 1st John 2.1?
Let's watch.
My little children, I am writing you these things so that you may not commit a sin.
And yet, if anyone does commit a sin, we have a helper with the Father, Jesus Christ, a righteous one.
Because the brother stressed the word father, he gave the impression that Jesus Christ is the father,
which was clearly not the writer's intent.
Let's give our brother another chance.
My little children, I am writing you these things so that you may not commit a sin.
And yet, if anyone does commit a sin, we have a helper with the Father, Jesus Christ, a righteous one.
This time, the speaker made it clear that the helper is Jesus Christ.
We should also be careful not to place undue emphasis on function words, such as prepositions and conjunctions.
For instance, at 1st Timothy 416, instead of reading,
you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
Why don't emphasize the verb to convey the full meaning of the text?
You will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
Clearly, there's more to accurate reading than simply pronouncing words correctly.
But even that can be a challenge at times.
Where can you find help to pronounce a word or name correctly?
Even Bible names?
You can look them up in a dictionary, a listen to an audio recording of the publication, or ask a good reader for help.
Accurate reading adds to the dignity of the message we preach.
It allows our listener to focus on the message rather than be sidetracked by any mistakes.
Most important, it honors Jehovah God.